Add more documents for new joiners (#758)
pharmaverse/aNCA: vignettes/governance.Rmd

---
title: "Governance model"
description: >
    This document outlines the governance model for the aNCA project, detailing roles, responsibilities, and decision-making processes to ensure effective management and collaboration within the project.

output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Governance model}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::knitr}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

This document outlines the governance model for the aNCA project, detailing roles, responsibilities, and decision-making processes to ensure effective management and collaboration within the project.

## Overall

> In terms of "Governance models" the aNCA project is a bazaar - contributions are welcomed from anyone. Two approvals are required for any code change to be merged into the main branch. They have to come from the core team in order to allow merge (authors listed in the [DESCRIPTION file](../DESCRIPTION) and/or contributors provided with review rights). Optimally, one approval should be from someone with a technical/coding background, and the other from someone with domain expertise (NCA/PK). This ensures that both the technical integrity and the domain relevance of the contributions are maintained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The aNCA project is open to contributions from anyone. Two approvals are required for any code change to be merged into the main branch. They have to come from the core team in order to allow merge (authors listed in the [DESCRIPTION file](../DESCRIPTION) and/or contributors provided with review rights). Optimally, one approval should be from someone with a technical/coding background, and the other from someone with domain expertise (NCA/PK). This ensures that both the technical integrity and the domain relevance of the contributions are maintained.
```

- **MUST** - task of highest priority, must be implemented for the application to be usable and useful.
- **SHOULD** - task that we should include in the ready product, but it will not be breaking if it is not implemented.
- **COULD** - things that would be nice to have and useful, but not instrumental to the whole package.
- **WISH** - ideas that are not valid for the time being, but are nevertheless cool and could become useful as the development progresses.

Decisions regarding an issue's priority are made by authors and in first place the maintainer(s) of the project. However, input from the community is welcomed and encouraged, especially for issues that may impact a broader user base. External opinions can be gathered through comments on issues or discussions in the GitHub repository. The priority level should also be determined by the pre-defined roadmap goals for the project, as outlined in the [roadmap document](https://pharmaverse.github.io/aNCA/articles/roadmap.html).

## Governance compromises

> All main authors listed in the DESCRIPTION, compromise themselves to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All main authors listed in the DESCRIPTION, are expected to:
```
